Structuralism in Cultural Anthropology\
This chapter consists of five parts. The first proposes a definition of structuralism against the background of other anthropological approaches. A brief diachronic sketch is found in Part I. Part III reviews some very recent contributions. A theoretical summary follows in Part IV. Finally, Part V focuses first on transformational analysis before examining a few testable hypotheses and their verification. The position of structuralism among other approaches in anthropology can be located by means of the Aristotelian notions of causality. Aristotle, and many after him, look at epistemology in terms of etiology. To know means to be able to map the different causes of a phenomenon. There are four causes according to traditional European philosophy: the material cause, the efficient cause, the formal cause, and the final cause. The material cause answers the question "What is the phenomenon made of?" The efficient cause answers the question "What/who made it, what is its origin?" The for- mal cause answers the question "What is it?" And the final cause answers the question "What is the phenomenon for?" Applied to social anthropology, the grid yields the following, where neat- ness does not necessarily mean oversimplification. Material cause: biological and physical anthropology and ethology in so far as they bear on social anthropology- generally speaking, cultural ecology. Efficient cause: evolutionary theory. Formal cause: structural theory. Final cause: functional theory. This is not the place to deal with the epistemological implications of the model or with the relationships between the different causes. All are different mappings of the same phenomenon, and therefore all approaches reveal different configurations. One can look at a piece of chalk or at the element of kinship from different viewpoints and map them accordingly. Thus, the definition of a chalk crayon in terms of limestone (material cause), or of its manufacturer (efficient cause), or of its cylindrical shape (formal cause), or 'It is appropriate to use this as a frame of reference as anthropology belongs to the European world view.}