Environment, Subsistence, and Society\
The relationship between environment, subsistence, and society has been one of the constant and chief concerns of anthropology. Here we shall examine recent developments which relate to this area. An annual review might be expected to cover only books and articles with a publication date of the previous year. But since this is the first annual review, I am arbitrarily widening the scope of this survey to include the last few years, roughly, the 1968-1971 period. This dateline artificially excludes the major influential works of such anthropologists as Julian Steward, Harold Conklin, Charles Frake, and Clifford Geertz. However, there are so many excellent recent summaries of the development of this field that there is no point in adding another. The inter- ested reader can turn to Vada & Rappaport (56), Netting (41), Damas (11), Anderson (1), and Harris (26). Here we shall try to focus on the cutting edge of the field. What is the state of the theory? What new methods and techniques are emerging? And what recent substantive knowledge has been brought forth? To anticipate the conclusions, we will find that the theory has been hampered by a simplistic polemic; that important refinements in methodology are now emerging, perhaps more from cultural geography than from anthropology; and that the actual substantive results, both in terms of satisfactory descriptions of individual societies and of determination of regular principles of relationships, are still too often trivial or overgeneralized. The subject can be phrased as the interrelationship of environment, sub- sistence, and society, or it may be more succinctly coded as ecology or cultural ecology. This can be misleading, for "ecology" now means so many things to so many scientists, parascientists, and antiscientists that any use of it will be challenged. I think that it is enough to say here that most anthropolo- gists and geographers who use the term "cultural ecology" are concerned with the interrelationships of environment, subsistence, and society. It is also well to note here that although we are most interested in studies which emphasize the relationships between environment, subsistence, and society, we must pay close attention to some studies which although they focus primarily on subsistence activities, utilize methodological innovations which promise to aid the more integrated studies.}