Culture as Behavior: Structure and Emergence

The annual review of the fluid and protean science of anthropology which is to occupy this book reveals a discipline with visible progress in many empirical discoveries. Its continued devotion to fact-gathering and its careful observation of the human realities of cultural variation attest to its enduring tradition. Anthropology is still the proper heir of natural science and natural history. Its data are those that come, in one way or another, from recording past and current events in human and hominid lives, whether in the testimony of fossil and artifact or in the protocols of the fieldworker's notes and tapes. Its coverage is still immense, indeed encyclopedic. It ranges from the diaries of the ethologist animal watchers to computer-sorting of world- wide processes of evolutionary advance, from word uses and color categories of tribesmen to the emergence of empires or the current fading away in the world of the rural-urban distinction. It remains the one science bridging the gap between the "hard" and the "soft" sciences, uniting the Two Cultures of Sir Charles Snow. Yet the progress of anthropology displays a proliferation and sprawl that threatens its advance. There are, of course, master concepts which offer some unity. But often these are merely imported from outside, like evolution and ecology. Some parts, chapters here, show order in classification and clarity in identifying tested processes. There are established mutual dependencies among data already firm. Archaeological sequences and language families can be cited. In other parts, particularly in cultural and social anthropology, unity seems much less. The replication and the cumulation that in science depends upon agreed definitions and shared paradigms of method and infer- ence is too little. itself perhaps less to summation, a task already in the hands of the capable chapter writers, than to uncertainties. Obviously it is culture which provides the theme which unifies, if tenuously, the great sprawl of the science. Culture, as man's special behavior, remains the theme still implicit in the background of all the subdisciplines. Perhaps it would be most useful to treat the nature, emergence, variability, and relationships of culture.\
\
An introductory essay on the progress here recorded, then, should devote}