 Kinship Semantics\
"Accounts of meaning usually throw a handful of putty at the target of sign phenomena. in anthropological theory since the publication of Morgan's Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family in 1871 (42). Yet, in the view of a number of anthropologists, many of us have still to learn the lesson taught by Morgan's early critics: that many or all of the terminological systems Morgan dealt with are not systems of kin classification, that their terms do not designate categories of kin, or if they ever do, this is only one of their semantic functions, and perhaps a relatively trivial one at that. Elsewhere (59) Lounsbury and I have attempted to demonstrate that this assessment of the ethnographic facts is mistaken, that the designations kin- ship, kinship terms, and systems of kin classification have not been misapplied by most ethnographers in the way that their critics (47, 66) would have us believe; and we have given some indication of the concepts and methods we think are appropriate to the description, analysis, and comparison of such systems. This essay recapitulates the major points of our earlier argument and reviews some of the more recent, as well as very old, literature on the subject of kinship semantics. The focus here is on what I think are the theoretically most fundamental issues in the study of kinship semantics, i.e. of the meanings of kinship terms. Little is said about the study of systems of social action whose norms are grounded in relations of genealogical connection. [A masterful review and critique of three principal "styles in the study of kinship" in this, the broader sense of the term, is now available (2).] This considerably reduces the number of publications that need to be noted, but I have reduced the number even more by concentrating on the works of a few scholars (not the only ones, of course) who have dealt with a wide range of topics and whose writings have significantly influenced the work of other anthropologists. If it 'This review was prepared while the author was a Visiting Fellow at the Re- search School of Pacific Studies, Australian National University, Canberra.}