Dating Methods\
Archaeological dating has undergone rapid development as part of a more general trend towards increasingly sophisticated scientific methodology, a trend that is being felt throughout the discipline of archaeology. We have not only seen refinement of traditional dating procedures but also the introduction of new techniques that considerably expand our ability to date past events. As in the case of other rapidly developing areas of archaeology, a substantial literature has accumulated that poses a challenge to archaeologists who merely want to keep up to date. I was asked to write this review when the editors learned I had just completed a book on dating methods (3). One observation that I can make as a result of my experience is that many of the important developments in archaeological dating represent contributions by the biological, physical, chemical, and mathematical sciences. A good portion of the relevant literature is written by specialists outside archaeology who often presume backgrounds in their respective fields that archaeologists seldom possess. As a result, the literature is not readily assimilated by the general archaeological profession. This problem has prompted recent efforts at syntheses that are intended for archaeological consumption such as the collection of essays edited by Michael & Ralph (29), those edited by Brothwell & Higgs (5) and the above-mentioned text (31). In this paper I will try to highlight some of the developments which are discussed in detail in these general works and attempt to show the magnitude of progress that has been made in the area of archaeological dating. The fact that recent technological breakthroughs are leading to a routinization of chronological analysis has considerable significance for the develop- ment of a more rigorous anthropological orientation in archaeology. Taking one example, we might note that there is growing momentum towards the application of general systems theory to archaeological analysis. One of the highlights of a systems approach is that it facilitates a dynamic analysis of cultural process (8). In such a framework the reconstruction of an archaeo- logical "phase" is viewed as the characterization of a complex cultural system at a given state along a multistate trajectory (4). The study of multiple phases is intended to document changes through time in the various compo-}