American Indian Linguistics\
Anthropologists tend to look to American Indian linguistics for a classificatory philosopher's stone, one which will provide large-scale schemes to cor- respond with those derived from study of cultural traits and natural areas. Alas, the facts are yet recalcitrant. There is thus a constant temptation to exceed actual knowledge, but here the neophyte has the advantage over the scholar. The true key to American Indian languages is a willingness to accept diversity. The well-known Indo-European language family had the geographical extent its name suggests prior to New World colonization, but even the wildest scholarly speculation finds no less than four American Indian language families of Indo-European internal diversity within the confines of North America. that is not original with me, but rather is based directly on a little-known aspect of a famous article by Sapir (78), as clarified and somewhat simplified by later work, particularly that of Haas. Within this framework I shall summarize the current state of description and comparative work for each family. Languages not securely classifiable in an internally differentiated family, either for lack of evidence or distance from obvious relatives- language isolates in the term of Haas -will be treated separately, and possible wider relationships then briefly discussed. Space limitations have dictated a narrowly linguistic concern in this paper. Such related topics as ethnographic semantics are omitted, and the emphasis here is on the status and details of recent and current work in descriptive and historical linguistics. The same consideration plus the writer's own limitations additionally circumscribe the America of the title to America north of Mexico, although a more reasonable division in terms of relation- ship would include both Mexico and Central America. In writing this paper I have incurred two debts. The first is to direct correspondents. In 1971, Kinkade (49) published a roster of linguists and anthropologists currently working on American Indian languages, containing the names of over 300 scholars. I have circularized those on the list, inquiring as to their current and recent work, and received a generous response from more than half this number. I regret the necessity for severe selection in actual literature cited, but hereby acknowledge gratefully the education received from all those kind enough to reply. Secondly, a major volume}