Ethnoscience 1972\
After the first flurry of successes at discovering folk classifications by relatively rigorous eliciting techniques, few major advances have been made in the direction of a better understanding of lexical/semantic fields.? Casagrande & Hale (6) provided a nearly exhaustive list of the major semantic relations, but little work followed in spite of increasing evidence that lexical/se- mantic relations are more readily recognizable as language universals than are semantic components (Werner 69). A partial explanation is that work in this area is extremely difficult and sociolinguistic approaches (ethnography of communication) seem to offer easier solutions. I think this is an unrealistic estimation since considerations of context, though certainly crucial, are also certainly more complex than so-called "context free" semantics. Advances have been few because experimentation with large lexical fields exceeds the limitations of procedures by hand. It is simply too difficult to keep track of 1000 or more lexical items and their ramifications. The systematization of lexicography -and ethnoscience can be viewed as an attempt at systematic and nonlinear (nonalphabetic) lexicography has always been burdened by the bulk of data it had to process. The rather unsystematic variations of definitions in existing dictionaries are a living monument to this problem. Progress in ethnoscience is slow because the purpose of the exercise was never made entirely clear. Theorizing in terms of "synthetic informants" or in terms of question-answering systems promises to fulfill for the first time Goodenough's dictum that an ethnography should allow one to behave like a native of that culture--at least for the general area of cultural verbal behavior based on cultural knowledge. It cannot be stressed sufficiently that This research was in part supported by a grant from NIMH MH 10940. I am indebted to the following people for their comments: Roy D'Andrade, Martha Evans, John Farella, Terry Strauss, and especially for the detailed analysis of Paul Friedrich. Any shortcomings that remain are my own. I simply fail to understand Hymes' (31) optimism or see any evidence for its justification. Compare, for example, Hymes to Roger Keesing's recent (38) opening sentence, "Whatever happened to Ethnoscience?"}