Environment, Subsistence, and Society: The Changing Archaeological Perspective\
It is a cliche to begin a review article by acknowledging that the subject is too large to be examined in any comprehensive manner. Environment, subsistence, and society are each the domain of at least one discipline. Environ- ment is considered to be the proper subject for ecologists, biologists, geologists, and geographers; subsistence is the domain of economists, nutritionists, and various agricultural specialists; society is studied by anthropologists, sociologists, and psychologists, to name only a few. Yet some men have at- tempted to relate the three subjects into an analytical framework. Few men have been as concise and yet been able to maintain as consistent a world view on this subject as John Aubrey (1626-97), the first person to consider Stone- henge and Avebury in archaeological perspective. He stated: Let us imagine then what kind of countries this was in the time of the Ancient Britons. By the nature of the soil, which is a sour woodsere land, very natural for the production of oakes especially, one may conclude that this North Division was a shady dismal wood; and the inhabitants almost as savage as the Beasts whose skins were their only rayment (Daniel9 ). One of the few advantages of trying to research the current status of such a broad subject is that one often gets an impression of the directions in which the scientific domain is headed. Thomas Kuhn (21) has suggested that there is an evolutionary progression in the development of sciences. Essentially he suggests that a developing science passes through the following stages: 1. First, there is a pre-paradigm stage in which there are many subjects and schools of thought competing for prominence. Since there is no com- mon body of belief, each researcher is forced to build his field from its foundations. 2. Second, out of this disparate body of contention, there emerges either a single theory or a set of new theories which not only reorganizes the}