Water Needs, Water Insecurity, and Human Biology\
Water is the most basic human need, yet it is among the most complex biocultural phenomena as it links the environment, culture, and biology (Rosinger 2020). Water needs, use, and security shape and are shaped by all facets of life\'97cultural, dietary, political, and environmental. There has been burgeoning research interest on water-related issues in anthropology and other fields due to water crises, climate change, and the declaration of water as a basic human right and its inclusion in the United Nations\'92 sustainable development goals. Two prior Annual Review of Anthropology articles used political, economic, and environmental anthropology approaches to discuss water (Ballestero 2019, Orlove & Caton 2010). Yet, globally, two billion people still lack access to safely managed drinking water (WHO & UNICEF 2021), which has tremendous health and human biology implications. An integrative approach linking physiological water needs to water insecurity (WI) is needed to attain a complete picture of how water affects human biology due to its inherent interdisciplinary nature.\
\
There has been little integration of the water needs and WI literatures owing to differences in operationalization and scale (Wutich et al. 2020b). Water needs are approached as a physiological and nutritional question (Sawka et al. 2005) and examined on a more acute scale (hourly or daily). In contrast, WI is studied as an experiential or resource-based question (Jepson et al. 2017, Octavianti & Staddon 2021) and examined on a longer timescale (month or year). Yet how people meet both their immediate physiological water needs and the water needs for all of life's tasks, including cooking, hygiene, and livelihoods, is inherently connected and tied to human biological outcomes. Competing effects of hydration and stress along with ultimate and proximate causation related to coping strategies lead to complexities in deciphering how water needs versus WI affect human biology.\
}