 Biocultural Lactation: Integrated Approaches to Studying Lactation Within and Beyond Anthropology\
Anthropology has a rich tradition of critically examining lactation and infant feeding in comparative perspectives across diverse contemporary cultural settings and in historical and evolutionary contexts (Tomori et al. 2018). The process and practices of lactation are particularly suited to anthropological study as lactation is fundamentally a biocultural phenomenon. It is simultaneously grounded in the deep evolutionary history of mammals and also uniquely human. Lactation is foundational for the survival and nurture of exceptionally immature human infants who require close bodily contact, frequent feeding, and care (Rosenberg 2021, Trevathan & Rosenberg 2016). Whether, how, and by whom lactation is practiced throughout human history and in contemporary cultures, however, depend on the broader sociocultural and political economic contexts in which people live because they rely on the intergenerational passage of knowledge of this embodied practice (Tomori et al. 2018, 2022a). This practice builds persons, kin, and community and is entangled in the reproduction of bodies and social orders. Opportunities for diversification and expansion of infant feeding practices have also been profoundly influenced by technological and scientific innovations, but also by environmental degradation and political-ecological upheavals driven by climate change. The diverse approaches of the field have provided unique strengths in conceptualizing and empirically examining biocultural lactation, as anthropology mobilizes a variety of analytical lenses across the natural and social sciences and humanities. Drawing on these perspectives, anthropology has been pivotal in challenging ethnocentric assumptions about infant feeding practices and made important interventions into other fields\'92 conceptualizations of these issues, including history, sociology, women's and gender studies, science and technology studies, law, medicine, nursing, and global public health. This diversity of perspectives and methodologies, however, also creates unique challenges and has led to considerable fragmentation within anthropology around lactation.}