he Invisible Labor and Ethics of Interpreting\
In the 2021 American Anthropological Association presidential address, Gupta & Stoolman asked why anthropologists \'93persist in erasing the labor of those with less cultural and educational capital\'97translators, teachers in the field, students, and interlocutors in academic settings\'94 (Gupta & Stoolman 2022, p. 786). In this review, we call for heightened recognition of the work of one category implicitly referred to here: interpreters. Interpreters are essential in global and multilingual contexts. Their labor enables global institutions to realize inclusive aspirations. Not coincidentally, then, interpreters are at the center of arenas that anthropologists study: global capitalism, mass media and mediation, Deaf cultures, global health, refugee and migration studies, the humanitarian industry, neoliberalism, multilingualism, and the ethics of fieldwork. Because interpreters work in the nodes of massive economic and political projects, including within anthropologists\'92 own projects, ethnographic attention to their labor pushes us to think more reflexively about our own professional ethics and the paradoxes of global capitalism within which both interpreters and anthropologists work.\
\
Interpreters engage in embodied communicative labor through the medium of speech or sign language (Koomen 2014, Marie & Friedner 2021, Rao 2021a). Like other forms of communicative labor, it is often devalued, unrecognized, and uncompensated\'97a form of invisible labor (Crain et al. 2016, Hatton 2017). Interpreters historically tend to be of lower status (women, children, marginalized or coerced workers, servants, slaves), which contributes to this devaluation. In the scholarship about interpreters, invisibility remains a contested frame for discussions about interpreters\'92 ideal professional roles. Interpreters\'92 invisible labor overlaps with related forms of labor encompassed within interpreting work that are also often unacknowledged: affective and emotional labor (Hochschild 2012, Mankekar & Gupta 2016) as well as care labor (Garc\'eda-S\'e1nchez 2018). Together, these forms of invisible labor reveal how capital extracts value from \'93activities it does not recognize as productive [work]\'94 (Luk\'e1cs 2020, p. 17).\
}