Is a Psychotic Anthropology Possible? Or How to Have Inclusive Anthropologies of Subjectivity and Personhood\
Anthropology is predicated on the division between the human and the nonhuman. This division of the human and nonhuman has often depended on the attribution of capacities to humans that nonhuman animals lack, which has informed how the evolutionary record is read as well: For example, modern humans represent a break from early hominids because of capacities for tool use, speech and language, forethought, and creativity. Such claims of human exceptionalism depend on both the attribution of \'93lack\'94 to nonhumans and the universalization of capacities among human populations (Kafer 2013, Kant 1996, Trouillot 2003). Anthropologists impute that nonhumans do not have these capacities and have later been proven wrong, as more nuanced understandings of nonhuman behavior develop (Cheney & Seyfarth 2008). Similarly, the primacy of sensorial features and forms of cognition that are valued in Western or North Atlantic understandings of the person and subjectivity has been deployed in other contexts, only to be troubled by the importance of other sensorial experiences and ways of conceptualizing the person (Geurts 2003, Howes & Classen 2013, Seremetakis 1994). These combined conceptual moves of imputing lack and universalizing North Atlantic forms of personhood and subjectivity lay the foundation for conceptualizing \'93normal\'94 human capacities (Davis 1995, Garland Thomson 1996, Grinker 2021), which are implicitly\'97and sometimes explicitly\'97associated with imperial whiteness (Anderson 2006, Frankenberg 1997, Hartigan 1999). This universalization of North Atlantic forms of personhood and subjectivity leads to a set of assumptions about what a typical set of human capacities are and generalizes them at the species level in order to make categorical distinctions about what and who counts as human (Wynter 2003). At its most pernicious, this construction of normal humans lays the foundation for an exclusive form of human exceptionalism in which only certain people count as full people, as some people, by dint of physiological impairment or cultural priority, do not exhibit \'93the\'94 quality that would make them human (Gould 1996, Roberts 2011). From the nineteenth through early twenty-first centuries, these forms of categorical exclusion have reliably created distinctions between normal humans and those who belong in categories associated with difference imputed to race, ethnicity, gender, sex, ability, and age, all of which reify whiteness and able-bodiedness as normalcy (Boisseron 2018, Bordo 1999, Gilman 1988, Luborsky 1994, Martin 1992). This division of the normal and abnormal and their basis in categorical distinctions have especially been the case in relation to cognition, consciousness, and mind, particularly as they are expressed as a function of subjectivity, where some forms of cognition and consciousness are taken as evidence of abnormal minds.\
}