Decolonizing Museums: Toward a Paradigm Shift\
The 2021 presidential address (Gupta & Stoolman 2022) at the American Anthropological Association annual meeting provoked a months-long debate about anthropology's founders. Gupta asked the assembly to imagine what anthropology might have become as a discipline if it had been decolonizing from its earliest moments, that is, if it had paid attention to the massive dispossessions and violence experienced by colonized peoples across the globe and included analysis of these processes in its explanatory frameworks. Led by Herb Lewis, a chorus of anthropologists mounted a critique of Gupta's lecture on the American Anthropological Association's Communities platform and defended the founders for all the valuable knowledge they had contributed to the peoples with whom they worked. Anthropologists, Lewis and his cohort claimed, were in fact the antithesis of colonial in their mindset and efforts. What struck us as curious about this debate was the absence of any mention of museums either as part of the colonizing project or as valuable holders of cultural knowledge. Despite the fact that scholars of museum practices and curators have created a lively literature on museum decolonization, they appear to remain out of sight for academic anthropology. Nevertheless, discourses and practices addressing decolonization have prevailed among museum staff and scholars, accompanied by significant changes in practices in recent decades. In this review, we consider the trajectory of decolonization efforts in museums, focusing especially on the case of Native North American heritage, with comparison to similar trajectories internationally. The treatment of Native North Americans is important because of the juridical relationship between Native American Nations and the United States government through treaties and legislation. This government-to-government history places a special obligation on museums to remedy colonial harm caused by the disrespect of Native American sovereignty. Another reason for this focus is that Native North Americans are perhaps the most represented and misrepresented people in anthropology and natural history museums.\
\
We begin with a review of decolonizing moments in theory and practice. We reference prior work inspired by the critique of ethnographic museums that took hold in the 1990s, but the intention of the review is to focus on developments after the passage of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA). We review work in both representations in public displays and also collections care. Throughout, we foreground the important contributions of Native American scholars. The second section of the review discusses the varied forms of collaboration that are surfacing and changing in museum practice, including decentering curatorial authority. The final section of the review foregrounds the fluorescence of tribal museums and how they are contributing to decolonization and indigenization (Krmpotich 2020, Phillips 2011). The processes reviewed here are considered as the emergence of a paradigm shift in both the anthropology of museums and anthropology in museums.}