Rethinking Neandertals
During a graduate seminar on Neandertals, the late Paleolithic archaeologist Prof. Harold Dibble told students assembled around a table the story of his recent trip to the barber. It was right after the release of the 1986 film Clan of the Cave Bear, based on the novel of the same name by Jean Auel (1980). His barber had wanted to talk about how terrible the film was. In fact, everywhere Dibble went, people wanted to share their often emotional and deep-seated opinions on whether it was a good film or a bad one, based not on plot or the acting chops of its lead, Darryl Hannah, but rather on how realistically Neandertals had been portrayed. Either they were not “human enough” or the director had gotten this species “just right.” Dibble pointed out that he had not once had a similar conversation with anyone about the film Star Wars. Moviegoers accepted that light sabers made one long, sustained sound when in use instead of something more staccato, and that spaceships banked in space despite the lack of oxygen. Even the famed film critic Roger Ebert (1986) gave Clan of the Cave Bear 1.5 stars, writing that the movie “approaches those times with a modern sensibility. It shows us a woman winning respect from a patriarchal tribe, when, in reality, the [Neandertal] men would have just banged her over the head real good. It isn't grim enough about what things were probably like back then.” There is a lot to unpack in Ebert's assertion about male and female roles in the Pleistocene (see Nowell & Chang 2014), but his review and Dibble's experience getting his hair cut beg the question of why the general public and even scientists have what at times appears to be an emotional connection to our extinct cousins.

In this article, I first provide an overview of the Neandertals by briefly recounting their initial discovery and subsequent interpretation by scientists. I then discuss our current understanding of the temporal and geographic span of these hominins and their taxonomic affiliation. Next, I explore what progress we have made in our understanding of Neandertal lifeways and capabilities over the past decade [what Papagianni & Morse (2015, p. 14) refer to as a “Golden Age” in Neandertal research], particularly in light of new technologies and changing perspectives. In the process, I consider whether these advances in knowledge qualify as “Black Swans” (Frayer 2019). In economics1, a Black Swan is a term used to describe an extremely rare and unpredictable event that has severe consequences but in hindsight was foreseeable (Taleb 2010). Recently, Frayer (2019) has argued that some advances, such as the sequencing of the Neandertal genome and the discovery of a Neandertal “necklace” at the site of Krapina in Croatia (Frayer et al. 2020, Radovčić et al. 2015), are paleoanthropological Black Swans with widespread consequences for scientists’ perceptions of Neandertals. Building on this analysis, I look at ongoing debates in the field using Neandertal extinction as a case study. By way of discussion and conclusion, I return to the story with which I began this article to understand why Neandertals continue to engender interest, and indeed emotion, among scientists and the general public alike.