Critical Geoarchaeology: From Depositional Processes to the Sociopolitics of Earthen Life\
Geoarchaeology\'97the practice of using techniques rooted in the geosciences to address archaeological research questions\'97has long-established foci on site-formation processes, geochronology, and the reconstruction of paleoenvironmental contexts as objects of scholarly investigation (e.g., Courty et al. 1989, Goldberg & Macphail 2006, Nicoll et al. 2021, Rapp & Hill 2006, Waters 1992). Such topics of inquiry have been so fundamental to the specialty that some scholars have suggested that all archaeology is essentially \'93geoarchaeology,\'94 given the degree to which any archaeological interpretation is premised on assumptions or explicit inferences about the formation and preservation of the excavated archaeological record (cf. Maher 2017, Renfrew 1976). While geoarchaeological research justifiably and necessarily maintains emphases on understanding environmental factors that have contributed to shaping the formation, preservation, and contemporary distribution of the archaeological record at multiple spatial scales (e.g., Araujo et al. 2020, Bauer et al. 2004, Goff et al. 2021, Mallol & Mentzer 2017), in recent decades there has also been an increasing effort to establish stronger links between geoarchaeology and other interpretive and theoretical concerns of archaeology, anthropology, and the broader social sciences and humanities within which these disciplines are situated (e.g., Maher 2017). These efforts have generally taken several different forms of theoretical engagement that serve as the basis of this review. More specifically, here I focus on four overlapping research orientations that have explicitly extended the reach of geoarchaeological work beyond its more conventional topics: (a) interpretive, symbolic, and social approaches in geoarchaeological research; (b) articulations with recent developments in posthumanist and new materialist scholarship; (c) the application of geoarchaeological investigations to historical ecology and political ecology research programs; and (d) critical engagement with ongoing interdisciplinary scholarship on the Anthropocene.\
\
Taken together, these different orientations offer new possibilities for geoarchaeological research to inform anthropological attention to social and environmental production and to contribute to broader conversations in the humanities and social sciences. However, these opportunities also come with challenges and pitfalls. The embrace of some strands of new materialist and posthumanist thought, for instance, has significant shortcomings in how this scholarship addresses concerns for power, inequalities, and political responsibility (e.g., Bauer & Bhan 2018, Harman 2009, Van Dyke 2015). Moreover, (geo)artifact classification schemes, typologies, and temporal systematics are not neutral analytical devices (e.g., Agbe-Davies 2016, Finney & Edwards 2016). Thus, to be clear, these new research orientations need not seamlessly articulate with each other. Yet collectively they enable geoarchaeological research to emphasize the social and cultural significance of earthen materials and substances in relationship to human\'96environment dynamics and histories at multiple temporal and spatial scales. Given the contemporary context of ongoing concerns for global environmental change (e.g., Crutzen 2002), such geoarchaeological research is thus well positioned to contribute to transdisciplinary conversations about social and environmental production, emphasizing, for instance, resilience and sustainability (e.g., Crumley et al. 2015, French et al. 2017) while also pushing beyond these interests to critically interrogate the ontologies and ideological bases in which conservation policies and discourses are rooted.}