Slaving and Slave Trading in Africa\
Slavery in Africa dates to antiquity, though no precise estimates of its scale exist. The terms \'93slave\'94 and \'93slavery\'94 are found in many African dialects, languages, and sayings. Yet, definitions of enslavement and slave status remain elusive precisely because it has existed in various forms across Africa, spatially and temporally. It is, therefore, useful to speak of slavery in Africa but not \'93African slavery,\'94 as if slavery were coterminous with the continent (Cooper 1979). Large- and small-scale systems of servility and unfree labor in the Savanna and Sahel existed for centuries (Klein & Lovejoy 1979). Slave trading networks in Africa transported people across the Sahara and the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, with significant numbers of people sent to the Middle East, India, central Asia, and South and Southeast Asia. Africa, however, was not only a source of export of people; enslaved persons were also imported into the continent. Together, slaveries and slave trades have facilitated the movement of people, things, knowledge, skills, ideas, and imaginaries into, out of, and across Africa, transforming communities in the continent and beyond.\
\
This review provides an overview of some of the themes and questions that have driven scholarly research into the dynamics and consequences of the capture, trade, and use of enslaved men, women, and children in Africa, with a focus on Ghana. I suggest that the history and legacies of slavery and slave trading cannot be understood without reference to African historiography, the politics of knowledge production, and present-day heritage tourism. In reviewing insights generated by historical and anthropological research, I also briefly introduce some of the possibilities, problems, and challenges of archaeological approaches to studying slavery and slave trading. These approaches offer fruitful future research directions and demonstrate that archaeology is in conversation with\'97and of value to\'97those outside the discipline.}