 Gut Microbial Intersections with Human Ecology and Evolution\
Over the past two decades, it has become clear that the microbial community in and on the human body functions akin to an organ. This community, known as the microbiota, interacts with multiple body processes and systems, affecting metabolism, immunity, and behavior in myriad ways (Al Nabhani & Eberl 2020, Carmody & Bisanz 2023, Cryan et al. 2019, Pronovost & Hsiao 2019, Visconti et al. 2019). While some components of the microbiota are passed from parents to offspring, and can therefore be considered heritable, environmental factors such as diet, social networks, and hygiene practices also strongly shape the microbiota (Blaser 2016, David et al. 2014, Dominguez Bello et al. 2018, Korpela et al. 2018). As a result, the microbiota is considered a key mediator of host responses to environmental change and is likely a contributor to patterns of human ecology and evolution. However, research on the human microbiota to date has largely been clinical in nature, and important gaps remain in our knowledge that preclude a robust understanding of microbial contributions to human ecology and evolution. For example, it remains unclear which human traits are more strongly influenced by the human genome versus the human microbiota and the extent to which human genomic and microbiome content complement or conflict with each other. Nevertheless, the vast amount of existing microbiome data from humans and nonhuman primates provides an important starting point for understanding these complex relationships.\
\
Here, we outline a broad framework for integrating the human microbiota into current perspectives on human ecology and evolution. Although microbes are found all over the human body, we focus primarily on the gut microbiota, given that it is the richest in both number and taxonomic diversity and is currently the most well-studied human-associated microbial community. We begin by exploring patterns of host-microbiome variation in modern human populations and the factors that drive it. We then describe current understanding of how the human microbiome has changed over evolutionary history and the processes that may have contributed to this change. Next, we leverage data from nonhuman primates to investigate how the gut microbiota can influence host ecology and evolution. Finally, we assess how well host-microbiota relationships identified in nonhuman primates are likely to translate to humans. In addition to summarizing the state of the field, our hope is that this review highlights key unanswered questions, contributes to the generation of new testable hypotheses, and encourages ongoing proliferation of research in this area.}