 Publics, Polls, Protest: Public Representation as Sociopolitical Practice\
Across a variety of locations, the last decade has seen vertiginous changes in our assumptions about both formal political processes and publics. Those holding faith in democratic processes have too often been left queasy as actors deploy media to undermine elections. Indeed, many see an instability to arise from the inextricable links between media and political processes. This review seeks to illuminate some connections across studies of publics, formal political processes, and protests. An examination of representation as sociopolitical practice allows scholars to consider the practices that occur around the edges of what has been considered the public sphere and to interrogate the ideological work of those boundaries, which reify national publics, separate civil society from formal politics, and distinguish representational work from collective action. Viewing media, formal political processes, and protests as interrelated phenomena invites the study of people whose involvement spans more than one of these practices and sheds light on the unexpected consequences of these phenomena. Finally, a focus on representational practices trains attention on the body, place, and social relations and asks anthropologists to attend to the multiplicity of ways in which violence shapes and can be produced by environments for expression.\
\
While in some liberal formulations, representation is reduced to mere reflection, anthropologists have long recognized that representation is productive and that it is inseparable from other social processes. Scholars have shown the relationships between the concept of political representation (by proxy) and representation as depiction (as portrait) across various settings (Bardawil 2020, p. 19, citing Spivak 1995; see also Latour 2005). The \'93public\'94 likewise has two distinct meanings: (a) discursive spaces produced by practice and (b) physical spaces accessible to many; these two meanings have often been artificially held apart but deserve integrated investigation (Manning 2022). The public is also \'93a potent ideological figure of the democratic imagination\'94 (Strassler 2020, p. 16). This article considers how these senses of representation and the public ricochet off one another. Examining the \'93media worlds\'94 produced by media practices (Ginsburg et al. 2002) and looking at politics and publics (Cody 2011) in tandem\'97similar to what Vidali & Tufte write about as \'93civic mediations\'94 that capture the \'93emergent and dynamic nature of public/civic life\'94 (Vidali & Tufte 2014, p. 8)\'97is a field-defining quality of the anthropology of sociopolitical practice today. Elsewhere, these questions have too often been pursued as though the United States and Europe are the norms. Anthropology offers a distinctly global perspective, and the discipline has adopted lessons from critical Indigenous studies that challenge colonial and liberal assumptions about expression, politics, and sovereignty. Furthermore, disability studies and queer studies provide approaches to foreground issues of place, embodiment, affect, and power.}