White Supremacy and the Making of Anthropology\
The concept of white supremacy has historically been associated with well-known examples of racism and violence such as Jim Crow segregation in the United States, the apartheid system in South Africa, and Aryan theories and violence perpetrated by Hitler's Nazi party. More recently, white supremacy has been linked with white racist hate groups, where violence propagated by white nationalists, neo-Nazis, and the \'93alt-right\'94 are described by popular media and academics as one of the primary \'93threats\'94 to liberal democracy (Bergmann et al. 2018). In this review, we challenge this characterization by presenting a historical and contemporary view of white supremacy as an entrenched global system forged through the promulgation of the idea of white racial superiority as part of the enactment and justification of transatlantic slavery and European conquest and colonization of the world. Furthermore, after World War I, white supremacy was enshrined in the \'93international world order\'94 through the consolidation of European (and, later, US) imperial power (Grovogui 1996, 2001).\
\
White supremacy, we argue, extends beyond the recognized understandings of race, racialization, and racism (see the sidebar titled On the Capitalization of Racial Categories). It depends on the idea of \'93race as a hierarchical relationship of power based on presumed biological and cultural difference as well as related practices of racism, the valorization of whiteness, and the denigration of nonwhiteness\'94 (Pierre & Beliso-De Jes\'fas 2021, p. 250). Since race depends on racialization processes, and racial meanings are in flux (even as whiteness maintains its power position), articulations of white supremacy also shift depending on cultural and political contexts. Despite its origins in specific conditions, white supremacy is an interlocking political, cultural, social, and economic system that has evolved over time and takes on different forms around the world. As Caribbean historian Walter Rodney notes, \'93[E]verywhere in the world white people held power in all its aspects\'97political, economic, military, and even cultural\'94 (Rodney 1969, p. 17). To analyze white supremacy, then, is to examine how it is structured in global economic and political processes, in and through our institutions, in our everyday social relations, and in the theories and methods of Western academic disciplines such as anthropology.}