Reconceptualizing Archaeological Perspectives on Long-Term Political Change
A profound reshaping of social scientific knowledge is currently taking place. Compared to the natural and medical sciences, the social sciences have been remarkably conservative.

—Mike Savage (2021, p. 7)

The decades spanning the mid-nineteenth to the mid-twentieth centuries constituted an era of marked academic growth and institutionalization in many global regions. In the social sciences and history, this period was characterized by a focus on questions concerning the rise of early urban centers, variation in governance and leadership in large, hierarchically organized polities, and, more generally, the diversity of human political behaviors and relations—past and present (e.g., Almond 1996). These issues had already engaged philosophers and scholars for millennia (Almond 1996, Trigger 2006), but with the mid-nineteenth-century institutionalization of the academic social sciences, including archaeology, the foundations for contemporary conceptual perspectives and key underpinning tenets were rooted. The greater attention given to such issues was spurred by many factors that centered around increased global travel and intensified colonialism, which fostered growing awareness of the highly diverse ways in which humans were organized globally; expanded knowledge of the architectural and ruinous residuals of past (ancient) civilizations; and marked growth in the sizes of nation-states and colonialist empires of that era (e.g., Feinman & Neitzel 2020, Kohl 1998). Although much of the theorizing was aimed at explaining the triggers of organizational variation and diachronic change, the data on hand were mostly synchronic, drawn heavily from accounts of contemporary peoples, and that disjuncture has been and remains an impediment.

In archaeology and cognate disciplines, conceptual frames birthed in the nineteenth century were revised a century later, at which time they underpinned a burst of research (Binford 2002, Feinman & Price 2001). Key comparative approaches and archaeological research programs were initiated, and the findings from these have in turn defined the last 60–70 years of investigation and recent visions of long-term political change (e.g., Marcus 2008, Spencer 1997). Here, I briefly unpack this extended research history and note the wealth of empirical findings generated over the past several decades, much of it from archaeology. The integration and comparative synthesis of recent archaeological findings with other textual, ethnographic, and conceptual advances not only has expanded the material basis to assess long-term political change, but also raises issues with extant perspectives and tenets that have guided investigation.