Environment, Epigenetics, and the Pace of Human Aging\
The demographics of the global population are changing in unprecedented ways. Over the next 3 decades, the number of adults aged 60 and older will increase twofold, to 2.1 billion, while the number of adults aged 80 and older will triple to 426 million (WHO 2021). Since the mid-twentieth century, average life expectancy has increased by more than 20 years, due in large part to medical and technological advancements, improved treatment of infectious disease, better sanitation, and food security in many parts of the world (K. Christensen et al. 2009, Vaupel et al. 2021), although discrepancies in the availability and accessibility of health care, technological, and nutritional resources still exist within and across national borders. However, the rise in average global life expectancy has not been accompanied by reductions in rates of chronic, noncommunicable disease, reflecting a lack of substantial progress in also extending average healthspan (i.e., the number of years a person maintains their desired quality of life free of major age-related disease or disability) (Crimmins 2015). As the older-adult population continues to expand, so does an already urgent need for a comprehensive social and public health infrastructure capable of supporting individuals as they age (Briller & Carrillo 2020, Crews 2022). Such infrastructure will require large investment, particularly in countries where health care systems are focused on addressing the burden of communicable diseases (i.e., infectious and parasitic diseases and maternal, perinatal, and nutritional conditions) and less focused on the types of chronic, noncommunicable diseases commonly associated with increased age. In addition, popular interest in \'93healthy aging\'94\'97maintaining feelings of physical and cognitive health, personal autonomy, and continued engagement with one's community throughout old age\'97has grown substantially in recent years (van Leeuwen et al. 2019). However, the question of how best to distinguish unhealthy aging from the natural but largely benign processes of physiological aging remains unresolved (Bribiescas 2020, Crews 1993, Galkin et al. 2020). Answering this question is key to supporting our burgeoning aging population as effectively and efficiently as possible, a goal that must include efforts aimed at prevention and therapeutic intervention while avoiding overtreatment that detracts from quality of life or personal autonomy for uncertain or very modest improvements in health.\
}