Financialization and the Household\
The problems of finance and challenges of sustaining domestic life confront householders with common questions wherever they are encountered: Why and how should they save and spend, borrow and invest? Through the answers, finance and households require and remake each other. The interplay between these domains has not been given the attention that it should receive, however. This is the legacy of a widely accepted\'97and false\'97conceptual split between households and finance. The division between the two is not based in observation; it is a political distinction masquerading as a conceptual reflection. Consider student loans in South Africa, the system of credit unions in the United Kingdom, or 401(k) retirement investment plans in the United States. Each financial tool presents itself as a way for individuals to enhance their abilities, a process that seems to retreat from collective life. Following this analysis reproduces an image of financial and economical effectiveness and social power that corporations and government agencies themselves promote. A deeper, more ethnographic examination reveals another story: Family and kin utilize financial instruments such as these to produce relationships and aspirations that bind their lives together and to rework existing expectations.\
\
Understanding finance and its limits, we contend, requires accounting for the household, both as a category and as a set of practices, which we call \'93householding\'94 (see also Gregory 2009, Fennell 2017). Managing credit, debt, and investment in pursuit of improved lives joins people together as kin; it brings intimate groups into being as they devise a prosperity beyond current resources. This process also ties kin into financial channels, trussing them to banks, states, and money lenders, among other institutions. Householding and finance rely on each other, but the significance is greater still: The possibilities and dangers of finance compel householders to create novel social forms and arrangements.}